What is Dockers?

It is virtualization software , that makes deploying and developing are easy 
the package application  with all the necessary dependencies, configuration, system tools and runtime environment which can easily share and distributed. That is container
A standardized unit, that has everything the application needs to run


Development Process before containers? 

Slow, manual, error-prone. Development environments varied, deployments were a hassle, and collaboration was clunky.
Example:  
Windows having node8 versioning mac having node5 versin.  ubuntu having node13 versioning 

We take a project from git is node10 version… 

Having different os with different configuration creating an issue/error in development

Development process after containers?
Fast, reliable, collaborative. Isolated environments, easy sharing & scaling, automated workflows. Development got a major upgrade!

Container: it is made by of layer of images
Base of most of the containers based on linux based image, because small(most of them are alphine because that will make sure that container stays small in size i,e. Is the advantage of using container)

Docker image vs Docker container

Docker image is the actual package where  the application together with the configuration and the dependencies, this is actually a artifact that is movable around i,e. image(in short it is not running)

Docker container is when i pulled that image on my local  machine   and started the application inside ans starts that create the container environment(in short it is running)


How docker install ?

To install podman : sudo apt  install podman-docker
sudo apt install docker.io
To check Version: docker - - version

Docker ps


Docker pull postgres(image name)
docker run -d --name postgresCont -p 5432:5432 -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=pass123 postgres


D - damin 


To uninstall it : $ sudo apt-get purge podman
After cleaning Podman from your Ubuntu 20.04 system, you can run the following command to remove unused packages and dependencies as well:
$ sudo apt-get autoremove



